We have entered into a very interesting section of the course where we are going to start tackling asynchronous
event handling with redux now explaining the concepts is going to seem way more complicated than it
actually is.
But I'm going to definitely make this easy for you while we build out and convert our existing code
to leverage redux more in handling these async get requests that we've got right here making this API
call to get the data which would then store in our state.
So as we mentioned in the last lesson our shot page right now is the only part of the application that
is actually able to fetch this collection information but if we had other parts of the application that
needed to leverage this code we would have to rewrite it or move it out somehow.
But the problem is that our loading state is also attached to this collection right inside of this component
and mount code.
We want to be able to extract all of this into its own reusable part of the code.
Now the great thing is that as far as the state goes we can probably actually already imagine that we
should put this on a redux state.
The other thing however is that if ever redux was actually able to handle asynchronous event handling
we could actually move all of this asynchronous code into an action and then have it dispatch accordingly.
Now I'm going to show you the structure of how we should write that code using redux and a new library
that allows us to handle asynchronous event handling and firing multiple actions called redux thunk
now.
Before I dive into writing that code and explaining what things are let's include the library first
once thunk is inside of our library we just need to include it into our store.
Now all thunk is is it's a piece of middleware that allows us to fire functions.
That's all it is.
I'm going to actually show you what it looks like once we actually bring it in.
So I'm gonna import func inside of my store yes from redux thunk and then put it in the middle whereas
array and that's all we need as far as setup goes to actually start using it.
We need to start re configuring our shop reducer writing new shop actions and modifying our code to
be ready for our new products code.
So let me write the code first before I start diving too deep into it because this is one of those things
where you kind of have to see it all first before it starts to really click but I'm definitely in explain
some key concepts along the way.
Now the first thing we need to do is modify our types before we had a simple update collections action
call because we were handling all the asynchronous activity here.
Instead what we're gonna do now is we are actually going to set multiple states that are shop actions
could be in as far as fetching the asynchronous data goes.
Now what I mean by this is that we're actually going to have a fetch collections start to call which
exactly as you imagine is what tells redux we're starting to fetch the data.
So this is actually before any data gets fact.
This is when the first API call to our firestorm begins.
It's just the start and then we're gonna have a fetch collections success call which is where it comes
back from us with a successful API request and hopefully the data that we need is also come back as
well and we need an action for that as well.
And then we're gonna have a fetch collections failure call.
So this is pretty much what happens if for example our server is down our internet connection is poor
we don't have the proper credentials whatever it is that makes an API call fail.
We want to handle that in its own action as well now in our shop reducer.
We now have to update not only our initial state but also our reducer.
So all we're going to add to this is an is fetching property with a boolean value.
So by default with so it's a false.
And all this tells anyone looking at this value is whether or not we're fetching the data for our collections
property.
So prior we had the loading value here inside of our shop page because our component was the one that
was doing the API call.
Now we're going to move it into redux.
So our reduce our needs to be aware or at least reduce our needs to tell anyone looking into it whether
or not data is being fetched or successfully fetched.
All this is indicating is that there is a state where our application is fetching data related to the
shop producer again.
This will make more sense once we write this up.
Now what we're gonna do is we're going to replace this update collections call after we write the other
ones first.
So we're gonna now need a new case for shop action type stuff fetch collections start and all this does
is it indicates again to our producer right that where is fetching is going to be true.
And that's all it is.
Next we'll be our shop action types.
Dot fetch collections success which is going to replace the code that we had here.
So we can just get rid of this and we're going to set is fetching two false as well as updating our
collections with our payload.
If you can understand we're pretty much saying once our API successful right we're going to now update
our collections right with our payload.
We're also going to tell our reducer that it's no longer fetching now this will also be the case when
our action types dot fetch collections failure comes through because technically it's not fetching anymore
either.
So we're just going to say dot state right is fetching is false because it is false it's already finished
the API request.
But what we're going to do is we want to do something with our error.
Now we can either store the entire air object ourselves or we can store the error message for our case.
Let's just store the error message.
So we're just going to add a new thing called error message and we're going to make it an empty string
by default or at least undefined
and now what we'll do is we'll just say that error message is going to go to action dot Halo.
So our payload that we're going to make sure we're passing through is the error message string.
So now that we have our reduced hours we have to think about our actions and in order for us to write
our actions.
This is where we're going to leverage thanks all.
Thanks are is a action creator that returns a function that gets the dispatch very similar to the map
dispatch the props instead of creating an action that returns an action right.
That's all we're doing.
Writing a function that returns an action write an action object.
We're going to write a function that returns a function that gets dispatch in it so that whenever dispatch
is called it will fire multiple actions.
I know it sounds confusing but let's write it out.
I promise it'll make sense once we write it out.
First what we're going to do is we're going to change this update collections to match collections start.
And this is going to be our fetch collections start call with no payload because all this action does
is it switches are reduced this is fetching state that's all it does then what we're gonna do is we're
going to make a new concept called fetch collections start async this is going to be the actual function
that we pass into our components to begin this process and I'll show you why we name it this way after.
So again all we're doing is we are returning a function right.
And inside of this function we are going to return that function I told you that gets a dispatch.
Now what we want to do inside of this function is we want to do all of the code that we had in our shop
component.
All this asynchronous stuff in fact we're just gonna copy this over pasted in and bring in all of these
other things that we need except for this one.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna import all those dependencies that we had in our shop
and we are going to bring in the fire store as well as our convert collections snapshot to map and here
we're pretty much doing exactly the same thing right that we had before except what we're going to do
is that once this starts we are going to actually dispatch our fetch collections start call.
So what we're doing is we're dispatching the moment this function gets called right our fetch collection
started and gets called the moment we call that function redux is going to then go through this function
it's going to instantiate this function the moment we call this in our application code what's going
to happen is it's going to create the collection ref and then it's going to dispatch the action fetch
collection start which will switch our reducer state is fetching to true and then it's going to begin
this asynchronous request it's going to go out fetch the code right from our back end it's going to
come back we're going to build our collection map and then we are going to make a fetch collections
success call and this is where we're gonna get our collections map and return what we had.
Very similar to our earlier update collections action except this time it's going to be fetch collections
success and as we remember in our reducer this is where we've put in the payload right of our collections.
So just like we had before we're just going to send our collections map.
And this is where we are going to now dispatch this method right here.
There's no longer any need for set state and that is all it is the moment that this code comes in.
We are going to dispatch this success once this asynchronous quest resolves as far as our error handling
goes as we know we can throw a catch or we get our error.
And as you can expect we're going to now dispatch the error call that our reducer is expecting.
Our fetch collections failure.
And as we remember that is expecting the error message.
So we are going to export cost fetch collections failure and this is going to be our error message
and here we're going to return type of shop action types fetch collections failure where the payload
goes to our error message and in order for us to use this we just got to make sure to Pastor into our
error creator the error message and now if we save we now have this asynchronous action creator.
This is all a thunk is it's just a function that returns a function that gets access to dispatch so
that we can dispatch multiple actions and handle asynchronous code inside of it.
We've also moved our is loading state into the shop reducer.
So now anything related to this asynchronous code is handled by redux inside of a reusable action now
it's no longer tied to our shop component but we will need it inside of our shop component.
So what we'll do is we'll remove all this code that we don't need anymore
and I'll show you what we'll do to bring it in.
So we don't need this either because now it's all getting handled by our reducer.
So now instead of this we're going to bring in our fetch collections start async method
and then we're also going to bring in create structured selector because we know we're going to want
to select certain values off of our state structures selector from reason like
what else we know we need to do is actually create the selector that will pull in that is fetching property.
So we're gonna go to our shop selectors and we're just going to make a new selector called export concept.
Select is collection fetching and this is going to be our create selector call where we pass in select
shop.
Right.
Because we want the shop object and then off it we're just going to return shop that is fetching.
That's all it is.
We're not going to bring this into our selector
shop.
Shop selectors and now we need to write our map states props.
So now that we know that we don't have this anymore we're just going to clear this out first and what
we're gonna do is we're in a constant map state to props which is equal to create structure and selector
where it is fetching is going to point to our select is collection fetching.
Right.
In fact we'll call it is collection fetching to be more explicit.
And then in our map dispatch to props we now need our fetch collections start async method.
So here what we're going to call is a function that dispatches are fetch collections staff async method
we're going gonna pass our maps states of props into our connect function as well.
And now we need both of these from our props to replace these values.
So now instead of pulling in loading from the state that we had before we're going to pull in is collection
fetching from our props because it comes in as props and we're gonna pass this into our is loading calls
exact same way except the true false is Don a producer next in our fetch collection start async we got
to make sure to call it in our component amount so let's D structure it off of our props and then we're
just gonna call it the moment component mounts.
Now if we save and we go back to our application we'll see that our code works the exact same way that
we expected it to.
The only difference now is that we have these new methods that kick start once this component mounts
a fetch collection start method gets called and what it does is that before when we look at our shop
right before the actual fire we see we have our initial state is fetching as false.
No error message collections is no.
Our method fires and suddenly now are is fetching is true which is what caused our spinner to appear
the moment it came back right with the correct API request inside of our action right.
The moment this comes back we then dispatch our new fetch collection success and that's what this action
is right here fetch collections success once fetch collect and success comes in the payload is of our
objects we go through the appropriate transform so that's why our payload looks like the final object
that it needs to be and then it updates our shop reducer accordingly and with that our components and
our code work the same way that they did before but now we've moved our code out into a redux handled
asynchronous event process and this pattern is a very very common pattern in redux especially for asynchronous
event handling when it comes to having components that depend on external API is to provide it with
the data now I know that what I explained might seem very confusing this idea of like thongs and like
passing in functions if you got it amazing if you did it that's perfectly fine we're gonna have to go
through it again and again anyways because practice makes perfect.
So watch this video a couple times right.
Reid redux thanks get repository the more you look at it the more it makes sense but all it is is just
that we now are able to return this function which can now dispatch multiple actions which in turn allows
us to now handle a synchronous activity inside of an action instead of our component.
So if we have multiple components that possibly need this shocked data right they can just fire the
action and then all the other components don't even have to worry because the data will now be stored
inside of our reducer and we'd have to rewrite that code.
Now I know guys that was a really long video but thank you for sticking through to it because this is
a very very important thing to look at.
This pattern is incredibly incredibly common to see especially in terms of how these actions influence
the state of how we store this is fetching state on our reducer you might see it named is loading or
something else but this start.
Success failure pattern is everywhere in react redux web development now in the next lesson we are going
to tackle a new pattern with using hired components but in such a way that allows us to extrapolate
our with Spinner modified components a level higher so I'll see you in the next lesson.